---
title: 'GRE // A love letter to yoga'
date: 2024-12-11
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

GRE
=====
God bless my soul for giving myself one week to study for the GRE and absolutely smashing it. Admittedly, I'm glad the exam is only as hard as it is, and I truly didn't have to *learn* much for it. But some quick takeaways
- memorizing vocab is futile. the vocab I memorized played a greater role in the writing section! 
- I was able to engage with reading comprehension as I found true curiosity in what the passages were saying. 
- easy math problems are delightful, great brain teasers. 
- don't forget your ID, take these things seriously. 

<!-- As I take the gre, i find this a staple experience in learning. there is nuance in word choice. from saying two skeins of thoughts are irreconcilable vs counterintuitive. the former indicating deep contradictions to each other, the latter not implying interaction betwen the two skeins. This will bring me up in the levels of cognition. As I attempt to not fall subject to cognitive miser ways

As my applications end, I reflect on how I've grown in the last half a year -->

A love letter to yoga
=====

When I moved here, I decided to live the life that I plan on living. And so I chose yoga. 

I spend a lot of time and am willing to spend a lot on physical activities ($180 monthly membership = 9 drinks). I figured that those who partake in yoga would have a nice, easy-going disposition, and I could make some friends. 

Never would I have thought that I joined a community where I felt like I belonged. From my first mornings learning the primary series, learning the chants, and reveling in focus and observation. In a conversation, I heard someone mention how they cannot drop Ashtanga because the people here are some of the kindest people. I wholeheartedly agree. I'm inspired by these people who are better than me. They practice with integrity, beholden patience and care, unabashed kindness. 

I've finding life beyond the career grind; it makes me so grateful to enjoy life. It's a work in progress, but I embrace each day with so much excitement as I get to do my favorite things. 


MRI experience