---
title: 'we are each others karma'
date: 2024-12-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - cool posts
---

Entry
======
How delightful the range of _things_ we can engage in?! Of hobbies as we keep our hands busy and dive into interests of our youth, watching shows to live the lives of other people. Of work, from exploring data to building pipelines that is model agnostic, and showing up for meetings knowing that this is my time and my boss's precious time. And that getting better at one thing, does not detract from the other. 

I love engaging in the process. I'm learning to engage deeply in multiprocessed endeavors, and to dive fully into one process at a time. For example, editing and writing, collecting information and acting, resting and conquering. Flexibility is the ability to change and strength lies in resistance. I find this duality in processes of physical activity and mental exercise, and it's a lifelong never ending tango. 

It's beautiful how I have years to do everything. every single thing. To dive fully into these roles that I play, a family member, a friend, and a tool for my boss. And of course, the captain of my own ship. 

Experience is a word for everything. I live a colorful experience. Amongst colorful people. As one who is affected, I am grateful for people in my life who have chosen to touch my soul, and as I expand and ascend in being, I am glad for the infinite ties we have with each other. We choose each other, we are drawn to each other. And in the words of Ram Dass, 
we are each others karma. 


Praise
=====
Last night, when I called my mom. we talked about praise. about the importance of when we are the one giving it, that we truly mean it. and what it means on the receiving end. to hear someones vision of us. because as lana said, our perceptions of self are 30% informed by what others say to us. I think of the people who expressed confidence in me, of recognizing my pain, of the people who chose me. Maybe this is why positive affirmation works so well for me. 